吃在盐城
Yancheng Delicacies
盐城
Yancheng,
一个让你打开心扉的地方
is a city where you can open your heart.
这里不仅有美景
It is also a place where you can enjoy beautiful scenery
还有很多美食哦
and, most importantly, delicious food!
小鹿带你看 盐城特色美食
Xiaolu's Yancheng delicacy recommendations
你吃过几样？
How many local dishes have you tried?
盐城鸡蛋饼
Yancheng Omelet
排行第一的盐城鸡蛋饼，是盐城特色小吃中的新锐，也就是最近十来年的历史，经过盐城早餐大妈们的改良，结合盐城人的口味，已形成盐城独有的特色。
The top-ranking Yancheng Omelet has a short history compared with other local dishes. Over the past decade, breakfast joints refined the omelet to suit local tastes. It has now become a specialty of Yancheng.
每天在盐城市后街小巷，都能看到做鸡蛋饼的摊点，鸡蛋饼加牛奶已成为盐城上班族的主打早餐。
You can find the booths selling the omelet every day. Yancheng Omelet and milk, that’s the classic breakfast recipe for the city’s commuters.
东台鱼汤面
Dongtai Fish Soup Noodle
东台鱼汤面是江苏汉族传统面食，民间常有“吃碗鱼汤面，赛过老寿星”之说。东台鱼汤面汤白汁浓，滴点成珠，清爽可口，还具有较好的养生作用，能够润脾健胃，补虚疗肠。
Dongtai Fish Soup Noodle is a traditional cooked wheaten food of the Han people in Jiangsu Province. As the saying goes, "Have a bowl of Dongtai Fish Soup Noodle, and you will live longer than the God of Longevity." The noodle soup is creamy, thick, refreshing, delicious, and good for your digestion.
东台鱼汤面富含高蛋白、低脂肪且富含活性钙和各种氨基酸，食后不上火、不口干，营养丰富，符合当代人所追求的膳食养生，经常食用，还可强身健体。
Dongtai Fish Soup Noodle features high protein, low fat, abundant active calcium, and various amino acids. You will not suffer from inflammation or feel thirsty after eating the noodle. Eating the noodle regularly is a way to stay fit and healthy.
伍佑醉螺
Wuyou Liquor Saturated Snail
伍佑醉螺选用海滩中的泥螺腌制而成。明代民间已有制作。其特点壳软透明，酒香浓郁，咸甜适度，细嫩鲜美，为佐酒佳肴。
The delicacy is made by soaking mud snails in liquor and preserving them for a period of time. It is a traditional food that dates back to the Ming Dynasty (A.D. 1368 - 1644). Characterized by soft and transparent shell, rich liquor bouquet, balance of salty and sweet taste, and fresh flavor, this dish pairs well with liquor.
1982年被国家旅游局列为土特产之一。1985年、1990年均获江苏省优质食品称号，1988年获中国首届食品博览会银牌，可谓是中国食文化的奇葩，盐城人的骄傲。
In 1982, it was listed as a local specialty by China National Tourism Administration. Honored as "High-quality food of Jiangsu Province" in 1985 and 1990, and awarded a silver medal in the first China Food Expo in 1988, Wuyou Liquor Saturated Snail is a big name in the Chinese food culture, and the boast of local people.
秦南水牛肉
Qinnan Cooked Water Buffalo
秦南水牛肉迄今已有100多年历史，是秦南镇的特产。秦南水牛肉集几百年的加工经验，采用上乘的水牛，运用正宗哈氏传统工艺和独特配方煮制而成，具有新鲜、肉嫩、味香、纯正、口感极佳等特点。“哈鑫”牌秦南水牛肉，曾获省民族宗教委员会颁发的“清真”食品标志，2004年通过国家无公害农产品认证。
Qinnan Cooked Water Buffalo is a century-old specialty of Qinnan town. Following the secret recipe of the Ha family, top-quality buffalo meat is cooked the traditional way. The dish is fresh, tender, savory and tasty. "Haxin" Qinnan Buffalo Meet got the halal certification from Jiangsu Ethnic and Religious Affairs Committee, and attained the national certification for pollution-free agro-product in 2004.
大纵湖醉蟹
Dazong Lake Liquor Saturated Crab
有诗句称颂：“菊黄桂子飘香早，淮扬竞夸湖蟹好”。所说产湖蟹的湖荡主要是大纵湖。大纵湖的螃蟹在1910年，在国际南洋劝业会上被评为一等奖，并获奖章一枚。大纵湖面宽水深，螃蟹个大、膘肥，一般三、四只一斤。大者重达半斤，只只青背白肚、黄毛金钩。用大纵湖的蟹，配以优质曲酒、米酒、淮盐、花椒、大料浸泡醉制，外观似活蟹，肉质细嫩，风味独特。醉味浓郁，香气沁人，为佐酒佳品。
There is a verse which goes, "In the autumn season when chrysanthemum and Sweet Osmanthus blossom, people living in Huaiyang Region praise the delicious flavor of lake crabs". The "lake" here refers to the Dazong Lake. In 1910, crabs from the lake claimed the first prize and a medal in the Nanyang Industrial Exposition. Crabs from the wide and deep Dazong Lake are big and fat with an average weight of 0.1-0.15kg. The biggest crab weights 0.25kg with verdant shell, white belly, yellow hair, and golden claws. Dazong Lake Liquor Saturated Crab is made by soaking the Dazong Lake crab in high-quality liquor, rice wine, Huai salt, pepper, and star anise. A processed crab looks as if it was still alive. Its meat is tender with a special flavor. With an aromatic smell, the dish is perfect with liquor.
阜宁大糕
Funing Big Cake
阜宁大糕，已有400多年历史，糕片白如雪，薄如纸（单片可点燃），甜如蜜，柔如云，上口香甜、滋润。主要以糯米粉精制而成，制作出白如雪、软如棉、薄如纸、甜如蜜的阜宁大糕。寓含着大吉大利、步步登高的祝福，在春节，阜宁大糕是盐城人家家必备之品。
Funing Big Cake can be dated back 400 years. The cake is snow-white and thin as paper (a piece of the cake can be ignited), and it is tender and sweet. Traditionally, its raw materials are sticky rice. During the Spring Festival, Funing Big Cake is a must for every local household as it symbolizes good luck and prosperity.
建湖藕粉
Jianhu Lotus Root Starch Rice Ball
建湖藕粉圆子是江苏省盐城市著名的特色小吃，已有200多年的历史。传统的汤圆都以糯米粉作原料，多种果料混合制成。其清甜爽口，沁人肺腑，细嚼鱼香不绝，避肥腻之讳，营养丰富，有健骨益血之功能。十数年前是盐城人宴席必备之品，时至今日，在盐城许多地方，特别是农村的宴席当中还是当家菜品之一。
Traditional rice balls are made of sticky rice and various fruits and nuts. Traditional rice balls are made of sticky rice and various fruits and nuts. Jianhu Lotus Root Starch Rice Ball is sweet, tasty, and refreshing. If you nibble it, you can enjoy the lingering fresh flavor without feeling that it is too greasy. Rich in nutrition, it is beneficial for both your blood and bones. A dozen years ago, it is a must for Yancheng people's banquet. Today, the refreshment is still a main dish in many places of Yancheng, especially in rural areas.
四鳃鲈鱼
Four-gilled Perch
四鳃鲈鱼，是江苏省有名的特产之一，是我国国家二级水生野生保护动物，是人类最后的珍稀贵族，位列“中国四大淡水名鱼”之首，有着“江南第一名鱼”之美称。
Four-gilled Perch is a famous specialty of Jiangsu Province. It is included in the list of Grade-II protected aquatic wildlife species. It ranks first among the "Four Chinese Freshwater Fishes", and is entitled as "the No.1 fish in Jiangnan".
伍佑糖麻花
Wuyou Sugar Twist
江苏盐城汉族名点，已有100多年历史，是盐城伍佑地方传统名特产，状如双龙盘旋，伍佑糖麻花内无白心，悬高一尺下落就全碎，是区别于外地麻花的又一特点。
Originated over 100 years ago, Wuyou Sugar Twist is a famous snack of the Han people. It looks like two circling dragons. Unlike other dough twists, it is not white inside, and will break completely if dropped from a mere height of one foot.
伍佑糖麻花小巧玲珑，以香、甜、酥、脆著称，入口油而不腻，具有“香甜酥脆”的特点。
The delicate-looking food is well-known for its sweet, crispy, savory, fat but not greasy taste.
大冈盐水鹅
Dagang Salted Goose
大冈盐水鹅是盐城著名卤菜之一，同时盐水鹅也是淮扬菜系的杰出代表菜之一，在江苏长江流域及长江以北地区具有相当高的受众。
Dagang Salted Goose is a famous pickled food of Yancheng and a classic dish of Huaiyang Cuisine. It is popular in the Yangtze River Basin and north of the river.
大冈盐水鹅以全天然科学配方，先进工艺精制而成。鹅肉味甘平、补阴益气、暖胃生津，具有低盐、低脂肪、低胆固醇及高蛋白、高瘦肉率的特点；不含人工合成香料和化学防腐剂，盐水鹅更具有鲜嫩爽口、肥而不腻、味道清香、风味独特等特点。盐城土特产店的主打产品。
The dish is made of fresh and natural ingredients using advanced processing methods. The goose meat is good for your health, as it features low salt, low fat, low cholesterol, high protein, and a high proportion of lean meat. It does not contain any synthetic fragrance or chemical preservative. Dagang Salted Goose is tender, refreshing, fat but not greasy, with a fragrant taste and unique flavor. It is a hot-seller in Yancheng’s specialty shops.